---
published: true
title: Our beginning
language: en
date: 2017-01-13
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/eyr/image/upload/v1489427176/1-qINwmQ2xJWt-yNkf0vyVAA_fbczja.jpg
image_desc: An iPhone showing a video consultation with a doctor on the Eyr app in an urban environment
---

# Our beginning

In mid 2014, our founder, Karl Martin, who had worked almost a decade in finance, was feeling the itch to try something else. In the finance sector, there is one single platform with information, real-time market data, price quotes, news, stock exchange, analytics, and even messaging, called Bloomberg Terminal. He spent years examining the financial data on that platform and thought, ‘I have this stream of financial data, where is the stream of my personal health data?’ Karl Martin was curious about what that data was, and if he could learn something from it, like he had with the financial data.

Eyr stemmed from the idea that new data gives new insight and new understanding to our health and its connection with preventative health care. However, it’s very hard to figure out a problem if you don’t have any data on it. Currently, health care providers store patient information in their own secure databases. Each health care provider or clinic has a safe, and encrypted place to store your medical history, however, we run into a problem when we move to a different city, or country, or change doctors, or schools. Our healthcare information and history ends up in many different places, so secure that it’s often hard to reach. That brought him back to the Bloomberg Terminal — Why isn’t there a single platform with our personal medical records and history, all in one place?

Initially, our founder created an app called FitMetrics. This app took the health data from the Health App on your iPhone, and analyzed it, with charts and statistics, not unlike the Bloomberg Terminal achieved with financial data. As Karl Martin continued to research the e-health sector, he saw the need for more innovation — “we are at the start of this huge digitalization, and soon we will have to digitalize healthcare as well. Right now, we have an aging population and the unsolved problem as to how to take care of our parents without bankrupting everyone. If we continue spending as much on healthcare as we do now, it will mean 30 percent of all students will have to work in healthcare.” Karl Martin saw some critical problems, an opportunity to solve them, and an economic wave pushing for change in this direction. Karl Martin then met with Vegard, Eyr’s cofounder, and together created the Eyr app.
